In this lecture, we're going to quickly study the anatomy of a block.
So far, we've been pasting blocks into our template files without a second look.
I want to quickly discuss the code for a block.
By no means is this lecture comprehensive.
In a future section, we are going to dive deeper into block development.
For now, a brief overview of blocks will suffice for theme development to get started, we are going
to look at the index HTML file.
Inside this file we have three blocks.
Let's study the HTML block, html comments around most blocks you can think of them as opening and closing
tags.
These comments let WordPress know where a block begins and ends.
Both comments contain the name of the block.
In this example, the name of the block is WP HTML.
There is a small difference to note in the comments.
The closing comment has a forward slash character before the block's name.
This character should be applying to the comment that closes the block, otherwise WordPress will assume
it's a regular HTML comments inside these tags are the contents of the block.
Ultimately, this content is rendered on the page.
The HTML block is considered to be the simplest block available.
Let's look at a more complex example.
The template part block follows a different structure.
Unlike the HTML block, the template part block does not have inner content, nor does it have a closing
HTML comment.
Blocks can be self closing in either example, a forward slash character is added after the block's
name.
This syntax tells WordPress that the block does not have immediate inner content.
The template part block is an example of a block that renders content through PHP.
This behavior will be explored during the block development section of this course.
There's another strange feature worth noting after the name of the block we have JSON.
The settings of a block are stored as a JSON value in the comment.
WordPress will parse this object before presenting the content.
You're more than free to modify this object.
In most cases you won't have to.
There are better ways to modify the settings of a block.
It can be difficult to alter these settings through an HTML comment.
Our editor will not be able to provide syntax highlighting or code completion.
This behavior makes editing blocks difficult.
For this reason, I highly prefer editing blocks with the full site editor.
This approach reduces the likelihood of an error.
With that being said, it can be helpful to modify the settings for quickly testing your code.
That wraps up the anatomy of a block.
Let's continue working on our templates.